# CS-340-SNHU

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

I try to write programs that can be reused in multiple different ways especially for database functions such as CRUD. I could in theory change some of the simple variables such as the DB, USER, PASSWORD etc., and use this function to apply CRUD functionality to any database of data stored withing MongoDB.  I believe working this way kept the code compartmentalized and usable for future CRUD operations and help with readability for anyone in the future that may try and use my code for database functions. If I have any projects in the future that require CRUD functionality, I should be able to modify the code to work for that project saving time and resources.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

As a computer scientist I try to take a methodical approach to the problems I encounter. For the Grazioso Salvare project I worked step by step on the required functionality. I think the milestones and assignments laid out a good framework for the development process and I followed that almost exactly. I developed functionality then tested it in multiple different ways as I worked to ensure that when new functions were brought into the program the previous methods were not broken. I kept this approach for each assignment and milestone, and it seemed to work very well for me. This was my first experience with MongoDB, so I did not want to stray too far away from the course material. This is essentially the same approach I take will all projects and assignments, so my methodology didn’t change much.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

Computer Scientists develop technology-based solutions to a multitude of different problems. We do our best to streamline processes and make them more efficient while solving the needs and problems of the end user. This work helps a company like Grazio Salvare become more efficient by processing the data stored within their databases in a fast and more functional way. The UI created in project 2 also helps the end user who may not have the technical ability to parse the database using only command line. This allows the end user to sift through data faster and allows the company to save time, money, resources, and manpower which helps the bottom line and also in this case helps animals withing a shelter system.
